I chose to consider potential problems from the field of number theory, partly due to my own interest from various competition problems and partly because such problems can be fairly easy to describe and still be explored at varying degrees of complexity. I'd come across Diophantine equations before, and being curious about their methods of solution, I decided to focus my Extended Essay on this area of number theory. I ultimately chose the rational cuboid problem as I found it unique in that it had a geometrical representation. I am currently trying to find an example of an Euler brick myself using properties of Pythagorean triples and researching techniques in number theory such as modular arithmetic. I also hope to find a way to relate it to other Diophantine equations, such as Pell's equation, which have known solutions. 

After further research, I have discovered that Diophantine equations such as those concerning rational cuboids have very rich links to areas of abstract algebra and algebraic geometry, and so I've decided to learn rudimentary abstract algebra in order to comprehend some of the research around rational cuboids. I am currently learning about group theory and elliptic curves and am trying to find a link between elliptic curves and Euler bricks. While I was initially focussing on the applicability of number theoretic techniques to the problem, I have also decided to incorporate links with algebra, resulting in my research question changing to become more comprehensive. As I've gathered more information about the rational cuboid problem, I've gradually changed the structure and focus of my essay to better reflect the current body of research concerning it, which has given me a better sense of direction with regards to the organisation of my essay and any potential conclusions.

Having always been intrigued by pure mathematics research, writing my Extended Essay on an unsolved problem in pure maths helped satiate my curiosity and introduced me to a vast field of mathematical knowledge. In particular, I was encouraged to explore a wide variety of mathematics beyond my syllabus, which in turn sparked my interest in fields that I was previously unaware of, such as abstract algebra and algebraic number theory. As well as this, it also allowed me to experience the process of mathematical research firsthand, which I found to be unique in its rigor and manner of organisation. While I wasn't able to explore possible approaches to the solution of the perfect cuboid problem itself via algebraic varieties due to the constraints of time and scope, I plan to continue doing so in my own time. I believe that the process of researching and writing my Extended Essay has given me a renewed appreciation for the intricacies of my subject area as well as the opportunity to view it in a completely different light, all while furthering my mathematical knowledge and research skills.
